# Golan Levin # 

Golan Levin is an artist and educator living in Pittsburgh, USA and teaching new media arts at Carnegie Mellon University (1).  He is an artist that works in the technological/digital domain and is expressly interested in “expanding the vocabulary of human action, and basically empowering people through interactivity”

‘Interstitial Fragment Sensor’ is a work that allows people to “explore the negative shapes that they create {} as people make shapes with ther hands or their heads {} these shapes literally produce sounds and drop out of thin air {} taking the undetected space and making it something real” (2) This work uses full body input.

He has also been interested in the impact of voice. After coming across the research of Wolfganf Kohler, he because very interested in the phenomenon of photaesthesia, the mapping of qualities such as brightness,sharpness, hardness or darkness and mapping them on the perceptual domain. i.e. the sounds made by L,M,B tend to be softer and PTK are sharper, and using data hes exploited numerically a mapping between the curvature and shape of vocal noises. Wanting to run these findings ‘backwards’ and that was the birth of his project ‘Remark’ a collaboration with Zachary Lieberman and the Arts Electronica Futurelab. “It’s an interactive installation which presents the fiction that speech casts visible shadows. {It is } a speech recognition system that is able to recognise what you are saying and then spells it out. And if it isn’t then it produces a shape which is very phonaesthetically tightly coupled to the sounds you make.”(2)

He is also interested in the human gaze, the eyes have great emotional weight and he wants to explore “how people can relate to machines with their eyes”(2) the main question he explores though is “What if art was aware that we were looking at it?” he explores this in two of his works ‘Opto-Isolator’ where a single eye in a box blinks exactly 1 second after the viewer blinks, and is intended “to reduce the phenomenon of gaze down to the simplest possible materials” simply an eye in a box. And ‘Snout’ is an 8ft snout with a big googly eye on the end powered by a 800-pount robot arm that “tries to look at the people who are moving the most” this was made with the intention to give passers by the feeling of being watched the impression that ‘Snout’ is surprised to see them, this is what ‘Snout’s body language is designed to convey.

(1)	https://www.flong.com/
(2)	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1G0MzlfMPuM
